# Publishing MySQL logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs
With CloudWatch Logs, you can perform real-time analysis of the log data, store the data in highly durable storage, and manage the data with the CloudWatch Logs Agent. AWS retains log data published to CloudWatch Logs for an indefinite time period unless you specify a retention period. 
## Configuring CloudWatch log integration
The error log is enabled by default. The following table summarizes the requirements for the other MySQL logs.

| Log | Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| General log | The DB instance must use a custom parameter group with the parameter setting `general_log = 1` to enable the general log. |
| Slow query log | The DB instance must use a custom parameter group with the parameter setting `slow_query_log = 1` to enable the slow query log. |
| Log output | The DB instance must use a custom parameter group with the parameter setting `log_output = FILE` to write logs to the file system and publish them to CloudWatch Logs. |

### Create a DB parameter group

1.  Open the [Amazon RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/), and then choose Parameter groups from the navigation pane.
2.  Choose Create parameter group.
3.  From the Parameter group family drop-down list, choose **mysql8.0**.
4.  For Type, choose DB Parameter Group.
5.  Enter the name in the Group name field.
6.  Enter a description in the Description field.
7.  Choose Create.

### Modify the new parameter group

1.  Open the [Amazon RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/), and then choose Parameter groups from the navigation pane.
2.  Choose the parameter group that you want to modify.
3.  Choose Parameter group actions, and then choose Edit.
4.  Choose Edit parameters, and set the following parameters to these values: General_log = 1 (default value is 0 or no logging) Slow_query_log = 1 (default value is 0 or no logging) Long_query_time = 2 (to log queries that run longer than two seconds) log_output = FILE (writes both the general and the slow query logs to the file system, and allows viewing of logs from the Amazon RDS console) log_output =TABLE (writes both the general and the slow query logs to a table so you can view these logs with a SQL query)
5.  Choose Save Changes. Note: You can't modify the parameter settings of a default DB parameter group. You can modify the parameter in a custom DB parameter group if Is Modifiable is set to true.

### Associate the instance with the DB parameter group

1.  Open the [Amazon RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/), and then choose Databases from the navigation pane.
2.  Choose the instance that you want to associate with the DB parameter group, and then choose Modify.
3.  From the Database options section, choose the DB parameter group that you want to associate with the DB instance.
4.  Choose Continue.\
    Note: The parameter group name changes and applies immediately, but parameter group isn't applied until you [manually reboot the instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_RebootInstance.html). There is a momentary outage when you reboot a DB instance, and the instance status displays as rebooting.

### To publish MySQL logs to CloudWatch Logs using the console

1.  Open the Amazon RDS console at <https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/>.

2.  In the navigation pane, choose Databases, and then choose the DB instance that you want to modify.

3.  Choose Modify.

4.  In the Log exports section, choose the logs that you want to start publishing to CloudWatch Logs.

5.  Choose Continue, and then choose Modify DB Instance on the summary page.


### View logs on cloudwatch
1.  Open the CloudWatch console at <https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/>.

2.  In the navigation pane, choose Log groups.

3.  For Log Groups, choose the log group to view the streams.

4.  In the list of log groups, choose the name of the log group that you want to view.

5.  In the list of log streams, choose the name of the log stream that you want to view.

6.  To change how the log data is displayed, do one of the following:

    -   To expand a single log event, choose the arrow next to that log event.

    -   To expand all log events and view them as plain text, above the list of log events, choose Text.

    -   To filter the log events, enter the desired search filter in the search field. For more information, see [Creating metrics from log events using filters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/MonitoringLogData.html).

    -   To view log data for a specified date and time range, next to the search filter, choose the arrow next to the date and time. To specify a date and time range, choose Absolute. To choose a predefined number of minutes, hours, days, or weeks, choose Relative. You can also switch between UTC and local time zone.

